.. These notes are used in:
   1. Our email announcements
   2. The Translate Tools download page at toolkit.translatehouse.org

Translate Toolkit 1.13.0
************************

*Released on 13 May 2015*

This release contains many improvements and bug fixes. While it contains many
general improvements, it also specifically contains needed changes for the
upcoming `Pootle <http://pootle.translatehouse.org/>`_ 2.6.0 and 2.7.0 and
`Virtaal <http://virtaal.translatehouse.org>`_ releases.

It is just over 6 months since the last release and there are many improvements
across the board. A number of people contributed to this release and we've
tried to credit them wherever possible (sorry if somehow we missed you).

..
  This is used for the email and other release notifications
  Getting it and sharing it
  =========================
  * pip install translate-toolkit
  * Please share this URL http://toolkit.translatehouse.org/download.html if
    you'd like to tweet or post about the release.


Highlighted improvements
========================


Major changes
-------------

- New converters for IDML format
- Support for new .Net Resource (.resx) format
- Extensive cleanup on ODF converters
- New quality checks


Formats and Converters
----------------------

- IDML

  - Added the ``idml2po`` and ``po2idml`` converters.

- .Net Resource (.resx)

  - Added store to represent the format and the ``resx2po`` and ``po2resx``
    converters.

- Android

  - Improved escape and unescape of Android resources with HTML markup.
  - Fixed bug in canceling whitespaces with backslash when unescaping.

- ODF

  - Removed the ``--engine`` option in ``odf2xliff`` because the ``itools``
    third party library is no longer used.

- TS

  - Pretty print output the same as Qt Linguist (:issue:`1420`)

- JSON

  - Dump content on memory instead of copy of parsed file (:issue:`3249`).

- PHP

  - Correctly roundtrip PHP with spaces after array (:issue:`3231`).

- Mozilla lang

  - Import only real comments (starting with #), not meta tags (starting with
    ##).

- XLIFF

  - Mark units as needing attention if sources don't match when merging units.
  - ``pot2po`` now also accepts files with .xliff extension

- po2moz

  - Fixed handling of files with fullstop in filename


Quality Checks
--------------

- Added quality check for Python brace format.
- Added the ability to skip some quality checks for the he, ug, zh_CN, zh_HK
  and zh_TW languages.
- Expanded printf quality check to support reordering `boost::format
  <http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_55_0/libs/format/doc/format.html>`_
  positional directives.
- Expanded docstrings to include fully detailed descriptions in order to
  display them on Pootle.


Tools
-----

- Removed the unnecessary dependency on ``lxml`` in ``pretranslate``
  (:issue:`1909`)


Languages
---------

- Language plurals:

  - Fixed plural forms for ga and pt_BR languages
  - Added new plural forms for new languages

- Adjusted punctuation for zh
- Corrected "Songhay" language name



General
-------

- Fixed bug in file discovery that prevented Pootle Pootle's terminology
  feature from working properly in some scenarios.
- Docs:

  - Major rewrite of releasing instructions
  - Reorganized string-related guidelines on styleguide
  - Other minor docs cleanups

- ODF code extensive cleanups:

  - Applied tons of PEP8 and style guide cleanups
  - Removed unused code
  - Removed unused test ODT file
  - Added lots of docstrings
  - Simplified code to ease maintainability and improve readability

- Dropped no longer working automatic publishing in PyPI and SourceForge
- Several changes to speed up Travis builds
- Unhid some tests

...and loads of general code cleanups and of course many many bugfixes.


Contributors
------------

This release was made possible by the following people:

Leandro Regueiro, Dwayne Bailey, Yaron Shahrabani, Sarah Hale, Sietse Brouwer,
Jerome Leclanche, Julen Ruiz Aizpuru, Michael Andres, William Grzybowski,
SirAnthony, Rafael Ferreira, Luka Kama, Francesco Lodolo, Buganini, babycaseny.

And to all our bug finders and testers, a Very BIG Thank You.
