.. These notes are used in:
   1. Our email announcements
   2. The Translate Tools download page at toolkit.translatehouse.org

Translate Toolkit 1.13.0-rc1
****************************

*Released on 12 November 2014*

This release contains many improvements and bug fixes. While it contains many
general improvements, it also specifically contains needed changes for the
upcoming `Pootle <http://pootle.translatehouse.org/>`_ 2.6.0 and `Virtaal
<http://virtaal.translatehouse.org>`_ releases.

It is just over 3 months since the last release and there are many improvements
across the board. A number of people contributed to this release and we've
tried to credit them wherever possible (sorry if somehow we missed you).

..
  This is used for the email and other release notifications
  Getting it and sharing it
  =========================
  * pip install translate-toolkit
  * Please share this URL http://toolkit.translatehouse.org/download.html if
    you'd like to tweet or post about the release.


Highlighted improvements
========================

Major changes
-------------

- New converters for IDML format
- Extensive cleanup on ODF converters
- Some bugfixes and improvements


Formats and Converters
----------------------

- IDML

  - Added the ``idml2po`` and ``po2idml`` converters.

- ODF

  - Removed the ``--engine`` option in ``odf2xliff`` because the ``itools``
    third party library is no longer used.

- TS

  - Pretty print output the same as Qt Linguist (:issue:`1420`)


Quality Checks
--------------

- Added the ability to skip some quality checks for the he, ug, zh_CN, zh_HK
  and zh_TW languages.


Tools
-----

- Removed the unnecessary dependency on ``lxml`` in ``pretranslate``
  (:issue:`1909`)


General
-------

- Fixed bug in file discovery that prevented Pootle Pootle's terminology
  feature from working properly in some scenarios.
- Minor docs cleanups
- ODF code extensive cleanups:

  - Applied tons of PEP8 and style guide cleanups
  - Removed unused code
  - Removed unused test ODT file
  - Added lots of docstrings
  - Simplified code to ease maintainability and improve readability


...and loads of general code cleanups and of course many many bugfixes.


Contributors
------------

This release was made possible by the following people:

Leandro Regueiro, Yaron Shahrabani, Julen Ruiz Aizpuru, Jerome Leclanche.

And to all our bug finders and testers, a Very BIG Thank You.
