Translate Toolkit 1.8.1
***********************

*Released on 19 November 2010*

Today the Translate team released version 1.8.1 of the Translate Toolkit.  The
Translate Toolkit contains many useful tools for translation, management, and
quality control. It is the technology platform for Pootle, Virtaal, and other
software.

This release contains many improvements and bug fixes. It is a recommended
upgrade for users of Pootle and Virtaal. There were over 200 commits since
version 1.8.0.

This work was made possible by volunteers and our funders:
 - ANLoc_, funded by IDRC


Highlighted improvements
========================

File formats:

- A rewrite and major improvement of the html format and html2po_ converter
- New JSON format introduced
- Support for `Universal Terminology Exchange (UTX)`_ format
- Support for `Java properties`_ files encoded in UTF-8
- Improvements to CSV_ format, and improved compatibility with Excel exports
- Bug fixes to `Qt .ts`_
- Support for XLIFF_'s state attributes (pocount_ now lists detailed state
  statistics)
- Minor bug fixes for PHP_ format

Languages and quality checks:

- Support for Persian quotations
- Major performance improvements to quality checks

Pootle will regenerate all statistics with the new Translate Toolkit installed.
Read about the `quality checks`_.

Other improvements:

- Improvements to stability of Lucene text indexing (affecting Pootle)
- Parameter for po2prop_ to ignore untranslated strings
- Many improvements to pot2po_ including Qt ts support, improved handling of
  extra XML namespaces in XLIFF, and performance improvements.

Further resources:

* `Full feature list`_
* Download_
* Bugs_


Happy translating!

The Translate team

.. _ANLoc: https://africanlocalisation.net/
.. _html2po: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/commands/html2po.html
.. _Universal Terminology Exchange (UTX): https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/utx.html
.. _Java properties: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/properties.html
.. _CSV: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/csv.html
.. _Qt .ts: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/ts.html
.. _XLIFF: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/xliff.html
.. _pocount: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/commands/pocount.html
.. _PHP: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/php.html
.. _quality checks: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/commands/pofilter_tests.html
.. _po2prop: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/commands/prop2po.html
.. _pot2po: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/commands/pot2po.html
.. _Full feature list: https://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/features.html
.. _Download: https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Translate%20Toolkit/1.8.1/
.. _Bugs: https://github.com/translate/translate/issues
