Translate Toolkit 2.1.0
***********************

*Released on 17 March 2017*

This release contains many improvements and bug fixes.


Major changes
=============

- Fixed `RomanianChecker` checks.
- Added an iOS checker style.
- Changed plural equations for Slovenian, Persian, Kazakh and Kyrgyz.
- Several fixes in formats and tools.


Detailed changes
================

Python 3 support
----------------

- Python 3.6 is now supported.


Requirements
------------

- Updated and pinned requirements.
- Now recommended requirements pulls required requirements.


Formats and Converters
----------------------

- All formats

  - `locationindex` now uses first duplicate unit in case of several units
    having the same location in order to keep duplicate entries in some formats
    when converting from PO format.

- PO

  - Only add duplicate unit if `msgcxt` is unique, in order to be able to
    convert monolingual formats with duplicate entries to PO.

- Properties

  - Added support for Joomla dialect.

- ts

  - Set the right context on the units.

- YAML

  - Fixed parsing of unicode values in lists.

- HTML

  - Use character offset in line for unit location in order to keep parsing
    repeated strings in different units.

- txt

  - Use line number on unit location to keep parsing repeated strings in
    different units.


Filters and Checks
------------------

- Fixed `RomanianChecker` checks.
- Added an iOS checker style to detect iOS variables styles such as ``%@`` and
  ``$(VAR)``.


Tools
-----

- `posegment` no longer outputs duplicate headers, 


Languages
---------

- Changed plural equations for Slovenian, Persian, Kazakh and Kyrgyz.


API changes
-----------

- Changed management of Xapian locks to prevent database corruption.


General
-------

- Python 3 fixes
- Removed unused code


...and loads of general code cleanups and of course many many bugfixes.


Contributors
============

This release was made possible by the following people:

Dwayne Bailey, Leandro Regueiro, Michal Čihař, Ryan Northey, Friedel Wolff,
Olly Betts, Claude Paroz.

And to all our bug finders and testers, a Very BIG Thank You.
