Translate Toolkit 2.2.0
***********************

*Released on 15 June 2017*

This release contains many improvements and bug fixes.


Major changes
=============

- Avoid resolving external entities while parsing XML.
- Improvements for Android, ts and resx formats.
- Added support for PHP nested arrays.
- Added Kabyle language


Detailed changes
================

Requirements
------------

- Updated requirements.
- Added `pycountry` recommended requirement for localized language names.


Formats and Converters
----------------------

- XML formats

  - Avoid resolving external entities while parsing.

- Properties

  - Improved behavior for strings with no value.

- Android resources

  - Improved newlines handling.
  - Strip leading and trailing whitespace.

- PHP

  - Added support for nested named arrays and nested unnamed arrays.

- ts

  - Handle gracefully empty location tag.
  - Encode `po2ts` output as UTF-8.

- resx

  - Improved skeleton.
  - Fixed indent of the </data> elements.


Languages
---------

- Added Kabyle language.


API changes
-----------

- Added functions to retrieve language and country ISO names.
- If available, `pycountry` is used first to get language names translations.


General
-------

- Python 3 fixes
- Added more tests


...and loads of general code cleanups and of course many many bugfixes.


Contributors
============

This release was made possible by the following people:

Dwayne Bailey, Michal Čihař, Taras Semenenko, Leandro Regueiro, Rimas Kudelis,
BhaaL, Muḥend Belqasem, Jens Petersen.

And to all our bug finders and testers, a Very BIG Thank You.
